docs: added csv enrichment highlight article (#10041)
vectordotdev/vector: website/content/en/highlights/2021-11-16-CSV-enrichment.md

> 2021-11-16-CSV-enrichment.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Or do you mean to have that there? I haven't seen other markdown files with the filename in the header.

---
date: "2021-11-15"
title: "CSV enrichment of data"
description: "A guide to using the new CSV enrichment feature"
authors: ["barieom", "lucperkins"]
pr_numbers: []
release: "0.18.0"
hide_on_release_notes: false
badges:
  type: new feature
---

# Enrich your data with CSV 

We're excited to share that we've released a new feature that allows users to enrich events flowing through the topology using a CSV file. 

> [Enrichment tables][] enables events to have more context and be more readable. This feature works by looking at a single row in a pointed CSV file, allowing users to map the data into the event using the full power of VRL. 

Reviewer 2: It can also look at multiple rows.

There are two functions: `get_enrichment_table_record` that will only look at a single row. We also have `find_enrichment_table_records` which can return multiple rows.

> [Enrichment tables][] enables events to have more context and be more readable. This feature works by looking at a single row in a pointed CSV file, allowing users to map the data into the event using the full power of VRL. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Enrichment tables][] is a new concept in Vector that allows you to enrich events from external data sources. To start, we've added the ability to enrich events from a CSV file by looking up a row, or rows, matching provided conditions.  This feature is integrated into the `remap` transform allowing users to map the data into the event using the full power of VRL. 
```

You don't have to take these changes as-is, but I thought it was useful to note that enrichment tables will likely be expanded in the future. We are just starting with CSV enrichment.

For example, when collecting events from IoT devices, you may want to keep your payloads coming from the devices to be small; by enriching events from a CSV file, users can reformat the data to be more human readable and provide better context (e.g., converting data emitted by the IoT device — `1`, `2`, `3` — to `"Low battery"`, `"Medium battery"`, `"High battery"`).

Let's stick with the IoT example from above, and let's assume that our CSV file contains the below:
```
code,message
1,"device battery full"
2,"device battery good"
3,"device battery ok"
4,"device battery low"
5,"device battery critical"
```

In order to use the csv file (let's call it `iot_remap.csv`), the following Vector configuration is required:
``` toml
[enrichment_tables.iot_remap]
type = "file"

[enrichment_tables.iot_remap.file]
path = "/etc/vector/iot_remap.csv"
encoding = { type = "csv" }

[enrichment_tables.iot_remap.schema]
iot_remap = "integer"
message = "string"
```

> Now, to translate the output from IoT devices to human-readable messages in our `iot_remap.csv` file, the following is required. To do so, leverage the [`get_enrichment_table_record`][]:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, to translate the output from IoT devices to human-readable messages in our `iot_remap.csv` file, the following is required. To do so, leverage the [`get_enrichment_table_record`][] function:
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``` toml
```

Reviewer 3: I'd assume the formatter would want a line break between the toml snippet and the paragraph above.

[transforms.enrich_iot_logs]
type = "remap"
inputs = ["vector_agents"]
source = '''
. = parse_json!(.message)

code = del(.code)

row = get_enrichment_table_record!("codes", { "code": code })
.message = row.message
'''
```

> For our next steps, we'll look to add encryption to this enrichment feature, but if you any feedback in the meantime, let us know on our [Discord chat][] or [Twitter][].

Reviewer 2: We don't currently support encryption for enrichment, so probably shouldn't look to this!

Reviewer 3: I read this as: `this is news to me, I guess I know my next work item` 😆

Reviewer: Yeah, we decided to punt on encryption for now. I think future plans for this feature would be:

* Supporting `or` conditions
* Additional enrichment table types (like reading from Redis)

---
date: "2021-11-15"

> title: "Enrich your observability data with CSV"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Enrich your observability data from a CSV"
```

description: "A guide to using the new CSV enrichment feature"
authors: ["barieom", "lucperkins"]
pr_numbers: [9069]
release: "0.18.0"
hide_on_release_notes: false
badges:
  type: new feature
---

# Enrich your data with CSV 

We're excited to share that we've released a new feature that allows users to enrich events flowing through the topology using a CSV file. 

> [Enrichment tables] is a new concept in Vector that allows you to enrich events from external data sources. To start, we've added the ability to enrich events from a CSV file by looking up a row, or rows, matching provided conditions, allowing users to map the data into the event using the full power of VRL.  Two new functions are now available. [`get_enrichment_table_record`][get_enrichment_table_record] works by looking at a single row in a pointed CSV file and reformats the attribute with the corresponding value, as described in the example below. In contrast, [`find_enrichment_table_records`][get_enrichment_table] can return multiple rows in an array format for more complex use cases.

Reviewer 2: I think this reads better:

```suggestion
[Enrichment tables] is a new concept in Vector that allows you to enrich events from external data sources. To start, we've added the ability to enrich events from a CSV file by looking up a row or rows that match provided conditions, thus allowing users to map the data into the event using the full power of VRL.  Two new functions are now available. [`get_enrichment_table_record`][get_enrichment_table_record] works by looking at a single row in a pointed CSV file and reformats the attribute with the corresponding value, as described in the example below. In contrast, [`find_enrichment_table_records`][find_enrichment_table_records] can return multiple rows in an array format for more complex use cases.
```

> [Enrichment tables] is a new concept in Vector that allows you to enrich events from external data sources. To start, we've added the ability to enrich events from a CSV file by looking up a row, or rows, matching provided conditions, allowing users to map the data into the event using the full power of VRL.  Two new functions are now available. [`get_enrichment_table_record`][get_enrichment_table_record] works by looking at a single row in a pointed CSV file and reformats the attribute with the corresponding value, as described in the example below. In contrast, [`find_enrichment_table_records`][get_enrichment_table] can return multiple rows in an array format for more complex use cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Enrichment tables] is a new concept in Vector that allows you to enrich events from external data sources. To start, we've added the ability to enrich events from a CSV file by looking up a row, or rows, matching provided conditions, allowing users to map the data into the event using the full power of VRL.

To support mapping events based on enrichment table data, two new VRL functions are now available:

 - [`get_enrichment_table_record`][get_enrichment_table_record] works by looking up a single row CSV file 
 - [`find_enrichment_table_records`][get_enrichment_table] can return multiple rows in an array format for more complex use cases
```

> For example, when collecting events from IoT devices, you may want to keep your payloads coming from the devices to be small; by enriching events from a CSV file, users can reformat the data to be more human readable and provide better context (e.g., converting data emitted by the IoT device — `1`, `2`, `3` — to `"Low battery"`, `"Medium battery"`, `"High battery"`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, when collecting events from IoT devices, you may want to keep your payloads coming from the devices to be small. By enriching events from a CSV file, users can reformat the data to be more human readable and provide better context (e.g., converting data emitted by the IoT device — `1`, `2`, `3` — to `"Low battery"`, `"Medium battery"`, `"High battery"`).
```

> For example, when collecting events from IoT devices, you may want to keep your payloads coming from the devices to be small; by enriching events from a CSV file, users can reformat the data to be more human readable and provide better context (e.g., converting data emitted by the IoT device — `1`, `2`, `3` — to `"Low battery"`, `"Medium battery"`, `"High battery"`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, when collecting events from IoT devices you may want to keep your payloads coming from the devices to be small; by enriching events from a CSV file users can reformat the data to be more human readable and provide better context (e.g., converting data emitted by the IoT device — `1`, `2`, `3` — to `"Low battery"`, `"Medium battery"`, `"High battery"`).
```

Let's stick with the IoT example from above, and let's assume that our CSV file contains the below:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```csv
```

code,message
1,"device battery full"
2,"device battery good"
3,"device battery ok"
4,"device battery low"
5,"device battery critical"
```

> In order to use the csv file (let's call it `iot_remap.csv`), the following Vector configuration is required:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to use the csv file (let's call it `iot_remap.csv`) the following Vector configuration is required:
```

``` toml
[enrichment_tables.iot_remap]
type = "file"

[enrichment_tables.iot_remap.file]
path = "/etc/vector/iot_remap.csv"
encoding = { type = "csv" }

[enrichment_tables.iot_remap.schema]
iot_remap = "integer"
message = "string"
```

> Now, to translate the output from IoT devices to human-readable messages in our `iot_remap.csv` file, the following is required. To do so, leverage the [`get_enrichment_table_record`][get_enrichment_table_record] function:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, to translate the output from IoT devices to human-readable messages in our `iot_remap.csv` we can make use of the [`get_enrichment_table_record`][get_enrichment_table_record] function:
```

``` toml
[transforms.enrich_iot_logs]
type = "remap"
inputs = ["vector_agents"]
source = '''
. = parse_json!(.message)

code = del(.code)

row = get_enrichment_table_record!("codes", { "code": code })
.message = row.message
'''
```

> For our next steps, we'll look to add support for `or` conditions and add additional enrichment table types (e.g., reading from Redis), but if you any feedback in the meantime, let us know on our [Discord chat] or [Twitter].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For our next steps, we'll look to add support for `or` conditions and add additional enrichment table types (e.g., reading from Redis), but if you any feedback in the meantime let us know on our [Discord chat] or [Twitter].
```

Reviewer 4: Some other things:

* Remove the comma after "e.g."
* "If you any feedback" -> "If you have any feedback"

[Enrichment tables]: /docs/reference/glossary/#enrichment-tables
[get_enrichment_table_record]: /docs/reference/vrl/functions/#get_enrichment_table_record/

> [find_enrichment_table]: /docs/reference/vrl/functions/#find_enrichment_table_records

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[find_enrichment_table_records]: /docs/reference/vrl/functions/#find_enrichment_table_records
```

---

> date: "2021-11-15"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: "2021-11-18"
```

Just updating to the actual release date.

- [`get_enrichment_table_record`][get_enrichment_table_record] works by looking up a single row CSV file
- [`find_enrichment_table_records`][get_enrichment_table_records] can return multiple rows in an array format for more complex use cases

For example, when collecting events from IoT devices, you may want to keep your payloads coming from the devices to be small. By enriching events from a CSV file, users can reformat the data to be more human readable and provide better context (e.g., converting data emitted by the IoT device — `1`, `2`, `3` — to `"Low battery"`, `"Medium battery"`, `"High battery"`).

Let's stick with the IoT example from above, and let's assume that our CSV file contains the below:

```csv
code,message
1,"device battery full"
2,"device battery good"
3,"device battery ok"
4,"device battery low"
5,"device battery critical"
```

In order to use the csv file (let's call it `iot_remap.csv`), the following Vector configuration is required:

``` toml
[enrichment_tables.iot_remap]
type = "file"

[enrichment_tables.iot_remap.file]
path = "/etc/vector/iot_remap.csv"
encoding = { type = "csv" }

[enrichment_tables.iot_remap.schema]

> iot_remap = "integer"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
code = "integer"
```

The field name here needs to match the CSV.

---
date: "2021-11-15"
title: "Enrich your observability data from a CSV"
description: "A guide to using the new CSV enrichment feature"
authors: ["barieom", "lucperkins"]
pr_numbers: [9069]
release: "0.18.0"
hide_on_release_notes: false
badges:
  type: new feature
---

> # Enrich your data with CSV 

Reviewer 4: This heading isn't necessary

> We're excited to share that we've released a new feature that allows users to enrich events flowing through the topology using a CSV file. 

Reviewer 4: In general, I think "enables" is more powerful than "allows"

> [Enrichment tables] is a new concept in Vector that allows you to enrich events from external data sources. To start, we've added the ability to enrich events from a CSV file by looking up a row, or rows, matching provided conditions, allowing users to map the data into the event using the full power of VRL.

Reviewer 4: *are* a new concept

> [Enrichment tables] is a new concept in Vector that allows you to enrich events from external data sources. To start, we've added the ability to enrich events from a CSV file by looking up a row, or rows, matching provided conditions, allowing users to map the data into the event using the full power of VRL.
> To support mapping events based on enrichment table data, two new VRL functions are now available:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Enrichment tables] is a new concept in Vector that allows you to enrich events from external data sources. To start, we've added the ability to enrich events from a CSV file by looking up a row, or rows, matching provided conditions, allowing users to map the data into the event using the full power of VRL.

To support mapping events based on enrichment table data, two new VRL functions are now available:
```

The extra newline is needed if you want a paragraph break.

 - [`get_enrichment_table_record`][get_enrichment_table_record] works by looking up a single row CSV file 
 - [`find_enrichment_table_records`][get_enrichment_table] can return multiple rows in an array format for more complex use cases

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Deleting extra new line

For example, when collecting events from IoT devices, you may want to keep your payloads coming from the devices to be small. By enriching events from a CSV file, users can reformat the data to be more human readable and provide better context (e.g., converting data emitted by the IoT device — `1`, `2`, `3` — to `"Low battery"`, `"Medium battery"`, `"High battery"`).

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Deleting extra new line.

Let's stick with the IoT example from above, and let's assume that our CSV file contains the below:

```csv
code,message
1,"device battery full"
2,"device battery good"
3,"device battery ok"
4,"device battery low"
5,"device battery critical"
```

In order to use the csv file (let's call it `iot_remap.csv`), the following Vector configuration is required:

``` toml
[enrichment_tables.iot_remap]
type = "file"

[enrichment_tables.iot_remap.file]
path = "/etc/vector/iot_remap.csv"
encoding = { type = "csv" }

[enrichment_tables.iot_remap.schema]

> iot_remap = "integer"

Reviewer 4: The column name here needs to be `code` to match the CSV file

message = "string"
```

Now, to translate the output from IoT devices to human-readable messages in our `iot_remap.csv` we can make use of the [`get_enrichment_table_record`][get_enrichment_table_record] function:

``` toml
[transforms.enrich_iot_logs]
type = "remap"
inputs = ["vector_agents"]
source = '''
. = parse_json!(.message)

code = del(.code)

row = get_enrichment_table_record!("codes", { "code": code })
.message = row.message
'''
```

For our next steps, we'll look to add support for `or` conditions and add additional enrichment table types (e.g., reading from Redis), but if you any feedback in the meantime, let us know on our [Discord chat] or [Twitter].

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Deleting extra new line.
